## React Docs - lists and keys

**What does .map() return?**  
.map() returns a new array filled with the outcome of a provided function. For example, if you have an array of numbers and use .map() with a function to double the numbers, the new array will return with the numbers doubled.

**If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how do I do that in React?**  
You can use the .map() function to loop through and array, and then use JSX to display this in React. For example, to display the items as list items, you would use the code below. (Taken and adapted from: [React Docs - lists and keys](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html))

>const pets = ["fish", "snake", "dog", "cat", "hamster"];  
const listItems = pets.map((pet) =>  
  < li>{pet}< /li>  
);

You could then display the entire array in a ul, like so:  
> < ul>{listItems}< /ul>

**Each list item needs a unique ____.**  
Key.

**What is the purpose of a key?**  
A key is given to elements to help React to know when anything in a compoonent has changed; such as something has been added and moved. This helps React to know when to re-render the component.


## The Spread Operator

**What is the spread operator?**  
The spread operator uses the syntax (...) and is used to turn or "spread" an array into seperate arguments. It can do many things, as listed below.

**List 4 things that the spread operator can do.**  
- Copy an array
- Combine/concatenate an array
- Add an item to a list
- Add to state in React
Bonus:
- Use Math functions
- Use an array as arguments
- combine objects
- Convert a NodeList to an array


**Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays.**  
> const pets = ["dog", "cat", "hamster"]  
const wildAnimals = ["lion", "tiger", "bear"]  
const allAnimals = [...pets, ...wildAnimals]  
allAnimals would then be ["dog", "cat", "hamster", "lion", "tiger", "bear"]

**Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array.**   
> const pets = ["dog", "cat", "hamster"]    
const addPets = ["fish", "snake", ...pets]  
addPets would then be ["fish", "snake", "dog", "cat", "hamster"]

**Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one.**  
>const firstName = {firstName: Joe}  
const secondName = {secondName: Bloggs}
const fullName = {...firstName, ...secondName}  
fullName would then be {firstName: Joe, secondName: Bloggs}

## How to Pass Functions Between Components

**In the video, what is the first step that the developer does to pass functions between components?**  
First, the developer writes the function. He writes this wherever the state he wants to function to change is.

**In your own words, what does the increment function do?**  
The increment function first takes the argument of name from the object of people. The function loops through the array of the people object to look for the name passed in and if it matches, it increments the count of that name/object. It is passed down to and called in the Person component to increment the count of the object when their button is clicked which sends back the data and updates the state.

**How can you pass a method from a parent component into a child component?**  
You can pass it as a prop. The child component can then access the function to invoke it.

**How does the child component invoke a method that was passed to it from a parent component?**  
The child component can access the function from props and invoke it in the usual way by calling the name with parentheses e.g. functionName() or without the parenthesese if used with an event listener. If the function was not destructured and passed down as "props", you will need to use dot notation to access it.   
*Note:* If you want to pass an argument into a function and not immediately invoke it (e.g. on an event listener), you need to use a callback function.
> < button onClick = {()=>functionName(argument)}>< /button>

---

Useful Links:
- [React Docs - lists and keys](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html)
- [The Spread Operator](https://medium.com/coding-at-dawn/how-to-use-the-spread-operator-in-javascript-b9e4a8b06fab)
- [How to Pass Functions Between Components](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c05OL7XbwXU)
- [React Tutorial through ‘Declaring a Winner’](https://react.dev/learn/tutorial-tic-tac-toe)
- [React Docs - Lifting State Up](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html)

---

## Things I Want to Learn: