## React Docs - Thinking in React

**What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?**  
The single responsibility principle essentially means that a component should only do one thing. If a componenet is doing many things, it should be broken down into sub-componenents.

**What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?**  
Building a static version of your app means building the structure and UI without adding any intereactivity. You can build your components and pass props down, but at this stage you would not add state.

**Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?**  
The next step would be to add state and interactivity.

**What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?**  
1. Does it remain unchanged over time? 
2. Is it passed in from a parent via props? 
3. Can you compute it based on existing state or props in your component?  
[React Docs - Thinking in React](https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react)

If the answer to any of these questions is yes, then it is NOT state. Whatever is left, or if the answer is no, is most likely state.

**How can you identify where state needs to live?**  
You can identify where state needs to live by first deciding which components will need to use the state. Once you have worked this out, you find the first elemnet which is a parent to all the componenets needing to use the state.


## Higher-Order Functions

**What is a “higher-order function”?**  
A higher order function is a function that either returns a function or takes another function as an argument.

**Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?**  
>function greaterThan(n) { 
return m => m > n; 
} 
let greaterThan10 = greaterThan(10); console.log(greaterThan10(11)); // → true


Line 2 is returning a function that takes a parameter of m and then checks to see if m is more than n (the parameter given in the higher-ordeer function on line 1.

In the example given, where n is given the argument of 10 and m has been given the argument 11, we can see the function returns true because 11(m) is more than 10(n).


**Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.**  
.map is itself a higher-order function as it takes a function as an argument. It can also be used with another higher-order function, for example after the .filter method. 

---

Useful Links:
- [React Docs - Thinking in React](https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react)
- [Higher-Order Functions](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)

---

## Things I Want to Learn: