##What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team

**To what extent did psychological safety impact your previous work experience?**
I was fortunate to work in a place where I had psychological safety and it had a huge, positive impact on my work experience. I felt safe enough to ask for help when I needed it and to be able to be open if I was struggling; and in return the people and workplace were very supportive. I also felt safe enough to extend that same help and support to others, and to ask people how they were doing. This lead to a wonderful and supportive team environment that in turn could produce great results.


**How does this article inform your approach to working with others moving forward?**
It has confirmed what I already believed, that being empathetic and sensitive to others can help build a stronger workplace and team dynamic. I will definitely consider psychological safety moving forward.


## How I explained REST to my brother

**Who is Roy Fielding?**
Roy Fielding is one people who wrote HTTP. He helped to write the first web servers to send documents across the internet. He has don a lot of research into how and why the web works as it does. He also proposed REST (Representational State Transfer).

**Why don’t the techniques that we use in this class work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world?**


**What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created?**
HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol is about being able to do the same thing for different kinds of data - or as the example in []() states, for "applying verbs to nouns". Essentially it is a form of data exchange which includes being able to GET, POST, PUT and PATCH (see below).

**What does a GET do?**
GET is used to get information from another system, such as to GET a representation of webpage from its server.

**What does a POST do?**
POST is used to add to another system.

**What does PUT do?**
PUT is used to replace another system.

**What does PATCH do?**
PATCH is used to do a partial update on a system.

---

## API Keys
Request a personal API key from the following APIs. You should receive these in your email within a few hours, often within minutes. Please request these keys prior to lecture to allow adequate time because you will need them in order to complete your lab assignment. Note: do not post your API keys in the Canvas discussion or on GitHub. Save them in a secure place.

## Geocoding API

Did you get your API key? - yes

## Weather Bit API

Did you get your API key?  - yes

## Yelp API Docs

Did you get your API key?  - yes

## The Movie DB API Docs

Did you get your API key?  - yes

---

Useful Links:
- [What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html)
- [How I explained REST to my brother](https://gist.github.com/brookr/5977550)

---

## Things I Want to Learn: