## An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com

**What is node.js?**  
Node is a JavaScript runtime, which means it can be used to execute JavaScript on a computer.

**In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?**  
V8 is a JavaScript engine that is used in Chrome and other Chrome-based browsers. It is open-source and contains a range of features; including a HTTP library and various utility methods.

**What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?**  
It means it is a program that is used to run/execute JavaScript on a computer.

**What is npm?**  
Npm stands for Node Package Manager and can be used to download JavaScript packages.

**What version of node are you running on your machine?**  
v18.16.0

**What version of npm are you running on your machine?**  
9.5.1

**What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?**  
npm install -g jshint

**What is node used for?**  
Node's main use is to run JavaScript on the server. It can also be used for many other things, including as a scripting language and to build cross-platform apps.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

**What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?**  
1. Greater efficiency - You are more likely to spot mistakes when working in pairs, there are more people to try and solve a problem and you are likely to produce better code with less bugs to try and fix; which makes things more efficient in the long run. 
2. Engaged collaboration - It can be more engaging, and frankly more fun, to be coding with a partner. You are less likley to get distracted or procrastinate when working with another person.
3. Learning from fellow programmers - You get to learn from each other, such as a new way to look at problem solving or perhaps a method or syntax you haven't used before. You may be skilled in diffenret areas which means you can learn in an area you may not be as strong in. You also can embed your own knowledge when explaining something to your partner.
4. Social skills - Pair Programming helps to build speaking and listening skills, as well as collaboration and communicating with different people or personality styles. All will help develop stronger teamwork. 
5. Job interview readiness - Some employers may use Pair Programming in the interview, so knowing how to do this will make your interview go smoother.
6. Work environment readiness - Pair Programming and collaboration is big in the tech industry, so by already knowing how to do this will make you far more ready to work in the tech envrionment.

**In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?**  
I definitely found I learnt a lot from my partners when Pair Programming. I was able to learn new things, and also feel more confident in my own ability when Navigating. By discussing problems out loud together, it was quicker to come up with a solution and solve problems. We also both were able to spot errors and typos easier between us. 

**How does pair programming work?**  
There are two roles in Pair Programming. The 'Navigator' and the 'Driver'. The Driver is in charge of having their fingers on keys and doing the actually programming. They need to use active listening to follow the Navigators instructions, and fix any errors that may arise. The 'Navigator' is not allowed to touch the computer or do the coding, however they can guide the Driver and point out any errors or typos. They should consider the overall picture and be thinking about what might come next or how something might be done. They can use their own computer to research solutions etc but that is the only time they should be touching a computer.

---

Useful Links:
- [An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com]()
- [6 Reasons for Pair Programming]()
- [Geocoding API Docs]()
- [Axios docs]()
- [MDN async and await]()

---

## Things I Want to Learn: