## Functional Programming Concepts

**What is functional programming?**  
Functional programming is known as a programming paradigm. It is essentially using functions to the best effect, such as by using pure functions. This results in cleaner code and software that is easier to maintain.

**What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?**  
A pure function is a function that follows two rules:
1. It returns the same output when you pass the same arguments.
2. It does not have any outside side effects - that is, it does not make any impact outside of the return value.

**What are the benefits of a pure function?**  
There are many benefits to a pure function. They are easy to read and predictable. It is also easier to test.

**What is immutability?**  
Immutability means that something does not change over time or cannot be changed. You cannot change it's state once it has been created.

**What is Referential transparency?**  
This is when you are able to change a piece of code with the actual value it outputs without it having any effect on how the progam runs.

>pure functions + immutable data = referential transparency -[Functional Programming Concepts](https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa)

## Node JS Tutorial for Beginners #6 - Modules and require()

**What is a module?**  
A module is code that has been split up in a logical way. Essentially, it is JavaScript file that contains a piece of JavaScript code that is reusable. We can then call upon the modules when they are needed.

**What does the word ‘require’ do?**  
'require' is the function used to bring another module into a different file.

**How do we bring another module into the file the we are working in?**  
By using the require function, like this:  
require('filepath-of-module');  
So if you had a module called 'count', you would use  
require('./count');

**What do we have to do to make a module available?**  
Inside the module, you need to say explicity which part of the module that you want to be available outside of the module, like this:  
module.exports = the parts we want available;  
So if you had a function you wanted available called 'counter' in your module, you would write it like this:  
module.exports = counter;

You would then set the require as a variable in the file you need to use it in. With the examples above, it would look like this:  
const counter = require(./count);

---

Useful Links:
- [Functional Programming Concepts](https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa)
- [Functional Programming](https://www.infoworld.com/article/3613715/what-is-functional-programming-a-practical-guide.html)
- [Referential Transparency](https://blog.rockthejvm.com/referential-transparency/)
- [Node JS Tutorial for Beginners #6 - Modules and require()](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHLd36QoS4k)

---

## Things I Want to Learn: