## Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack

**What is a ‘call’?**  
A call is when you invoke a function.

**How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?**  
Only one call can happen at a time.

**What does LIFO mean?**  
LIFO stands for Last In, First Out. It essentially means that the last function that was added to the callstack becomes the first function popped out the callstack.


**Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.**


**What causes a Stack Overflow?**  
If you called a function within itself, this would cause the function to continiously run with no end or exit to the function. Eventually the browser will reach a maximum number of calls, and this is a Stack Overflow.


## JavaScript error messages

**What is a ‘reference error’?**    
A reference error is when you try to use a variable that hasn't been declared.  
*Note:* Remember to declare your variable above your code that uses it.

**What is a ‘syntax error’?**  
A syntax error is, as it sounds, when there is a mistake with the syntax. 

**What is a ‘range error’?**  
A range error is when you try to use length to manipulate an object, but the length is invalid or wrong.  
E.g.  
const arr = [];
arr.length = arr.length -1 (You cannot minus 1 from an empty array);

**What is a ‘type error’?**  
A type error is when the types you are trying to use are incompatible. An example of this would be if you tried to do a sum by adding a number to a string; the string will take precedence and the return will be a string instead of the sum of two numbers. e.g. 4 + "50" will return "450" instead of 54. This is a type error.

**What is a breakpoint?**  
A breakpoint is where you mark a point that you want your program to stop running. You can do this in the developer tools and it is helpful when looking for bugs in a specific part of the code.

**What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?**
When you add the word debugger into your code, it acts as a breakpoint and shows you the history of the code up until this point.

---

Useful Links:
- [Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4)
- [JavaScript error messages](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)
- [JavaScript errors reference on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Errors)

---

## Things I Want to Learn: