## nosql vs sql

**Fill below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:**

**SQL**

1. Relational database
2. Tabled based database
3. Vertically scalable
4. Uses SQL (structured query language)
5. SQL databases have predefined schema

**NoSQL**

1. Non- relational database
2. Document based database using key:value pairs, graph documents or wide-column stores
3. Horizontally scalable
4. Uses UnQL (Unstructured Query Language)
5. NoSQL databases have dynamic schema for unstructured data

**What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?**  
Complex queries are better suited to SQL. Transactional apps are also better for SQL as it has more stability.

**Give a real world example.**  
An online shop used for getting and storing orders.

**What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?**  
Simple queries are good for NoSQL due to the speediness.

**Give a real world example.**  
NoSQL is good when completing user profiles, such as on Netflix.

**Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?**  
NoSQL as it uses key value pairs for storage, just like JSON.

**Which type of database is best for scalability?**  
NoSQL offers more flexibility and scalability.

**What does SQL stand for?**  
Structured Query Language

**What is a relational database?**  
A relational database is a database that uses lots of different tables that link to each other. They are table-based.

**What type of structure does a relational database work with?**  
Relational databases use tables. They use 'fields' which are the schema.
Each row of the table is called a 'record' and contain the values to the field/properties. Each record has an ID which is used to connect to other tables.

**What is a ‘schema’?**  
A schema is a framework which helps us to organise the structure of the data in databases. A schema will define what the database should look like/ how it is represented.  
For example, in SQL the schema is using fields and records stored as a table.

**What is a NoSQL database and how does it work??**  
A NoSQL database is a database that is document based, rather than table based. They use key:value pairs, graph documents or wide-column stores. They have collections of data rather than tables. They do not have a fixed schema it has to adhere to and uses horizontal scaling - this means data could be split across databases which can result into faster results.

**What is inside of a MongoDB database?**  
MongoDB consists of documents and collections that look a lot like json.

**Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.**  
MongoDB is more flexible as you can have different schemas within it. The collections do not need to have all of the properties like it does in a SQL.

**What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?**  
If you have relational data, you would have to merge this manually or store all the related data as a collection. This does lead to duplicate data and if this data changes, you would have to change this in each collection it is in rather than in just one place.

---

Useful Links:

- [nosql vs sql](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)
- [nosql vs sql - video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y)
- [mongoose api](<https://mongoosejs.com/docs/api/model.html#Model()>)
- [React Router](https://reactrouter.com/en/6.14.1/web/api/BrowserRouter)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
