## Status Codes Based On REST Methods

**In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:**

- 100’s = These are status codes that give information to the client - usually to say that they received part of the request and it will try to comply with the client.
- 200’s = These are used when the request was a success.
- 300’s = These tell the client that the location is no longer available. They are redirect codes and lets the user know that they need to send the request to the new/correct location.
- 400’s = You get these codes when there is an error. The error could be for various reasons, such as because of a timeout or a missing authentication. The client will need to check if they are sending the correct input of data.
- 500’s = These are when there is an error with the server/on the server side. This could be due to the server being overwhlemed or unreachable. When receiving these status codes, the client should try to resend their request.

**What is a status code 202?**
This means that the request has been accepted, however the processing is not complete. This is often the case for asynchronus processing. There will usually be some information stating when processing is expected to be completed.

**What is a status code 308?**
Status 308 code tells the client that the need to use another URL instead ofthe current/old URL. It is essentailly a permanent redirect.

**What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?**
204 No Content

**What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?**
404 Gone

**What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?**
403 Forbidden - This is when the client doesn't have permission to access the resource, even though they have authorized or doesn't need to authorize itself.

## Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick - First 20 minutes

**Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?**
Because while building we are using our local host, however we will want to change this when we deploy our website. Once we have a built a database with MongoDB, we will also include the password which we will not want to be visibile for otehrs.

**What is middleware?**
Middleware is code that runs when a server makes a request, but before it is passed to the routes.

**What does app.use(express.json()) do?**
This lets the server except JSON as a body.

**What does the /:id mean in a route?**
The :id is the params. It will replace :id with the id of the object/data you are trying to accesss - usually to update or delete.

**What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?**
PATCH is used to update just part of the data or object, where as PUT is used to update the entire object/data.

**How do you make a default value in a schema?**
By using the default keyword in the schema object.

**What does a 500 error status code mean?**
A 500 error code status means there is an error on the server side - essentially it means the error isn't because of anything the client/user has done, but due to an error on the server.

**What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?**
a 200 status is a general success status, however 201 is more specific and means something has been created successfully.

---

Useful Links:

- [Status Codes Based On REST Methods](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)
- [Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick - First 20 minutes](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
