## Consider the history: That Time When Women Stopped Coding

**What occurred during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?**
Personal and hand-held computers were released and they were marketed towards boys and men. This lead to the idea that computers are for boys. Movies being released also reinforced this.

**Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?**
It meant that when going to college to study computer science or similar degrees, professors would expect students to come in having grown up playing with computers and having prior knowledge. As most families didn't tend to buy computers for their girls, this put them behind and could lead to them being less successful in the subject.

## Ask the question: Why diversity matters to your tech company

**When are diversity efforts most successful?**  
When they are driven by a commitment from company leaders.

**Why do diverse companies perform better?**
Diverse companies perform better because diverse groups of people bring different ways of looking at things and at solving problems. Diverse teams tend to be smarter and more creative, and this leads to better performance. By having a diverse team that have different life experiences and upbringings, means there will be different ideas and ways of looking at things and they can speak for other users with diverse backgrounds also.

**Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.**
A diverse company can better represent their users. Somebody from a diverse background will know what other users from similar backgrounds may be looking for when choosing which company to use. More people are likely to use a company if they feel represented.

---

Useful Links:

- [Consider the history: That Time When Women Stopped Coding](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding)
- [Review the data: Employee breakdown of key technology companie](https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/)
- [Ask the question: Why diversity matters to your tech company](https://eu.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
