## What is OAuth

**What is OAuth?**  
OAuth stands for Open Authorization and is a framework that lets you give consent to another site or app without having to log in again or share your login credentials.

**Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.**  
This could look like when you log on to a site, and you are given the option to sign in using another account you already have. For example, when you create a Spotify account, you are given the option to sign up with your Facebook account.

**How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?**

> 1.  "The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.
> 2.  The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.
> 3.  The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.
> 4.  The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).
> 5.  If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.
> 6.  The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.
> 7.  The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).
> 8.  The user gives the approved access token to the first website.
> 9.  The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.
> 10. The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.
> 11. The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring." - Excerpt from: [What is OAuth](https://www.csoonline.com/article/562635/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)

**What is OpenID?**  
OpenID is a single sign-on and used for authenticating users. It is used to log-in to multiple sites without having to make multiple logins.

## Authorization and Authentication flows

**What is the difference between authorization and authentication?**  
Authorization is when you get permission for a site to be accessed, where as authentication is when you authenticate a user's identification.

**What is Authorization Code Flow?**  
Authorization Code Flow is when an Authorization code is exchanged for an access token.

**What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?**  
This adds the extra security needed when authenticating for webpages/apps.

**What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?**

> "As an alternative to the Authorization Code Flow, OAuth 2.0 provides the Implicit Flow, which is intended for Public Clients, or applications which are unable to securely store Client Secrets. While this is no longer considered a best practice for requesting Access Tokens, when used with Form Post response mode, it does offer a streamlined workflow if the application needs only an ID token to perform user authentication." - [Authorization and Authentication flows](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow)

**What is Client Credentials Flow?**  
This is when an application exchanges it's credentials and is usually used for machine-to-machine applications.

**What is Device Authorization Flow?**  
This is when a user has to go to a link or app to authorize their device.

**What is Resource Owner Password Flow?**  
 This is for applications that are completely trusted, as it is when login credentials are saved to the backend server and used instead of getting an access key. It is better to use Authorization Code Flow where you can.

---

Useful Links:

- [What is OAuth](https://www.csoonline.com/article/562635/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)
- [Authorization and Authentication flows](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow)
- [Auth0 for single page apps](https://auth0.com/docs/libraries/auth0-react)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
