## Getting Started

**Compose a short poem describing how HTTP sends data between computers.**  
HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol.

**Describe how HTML, CSS, and JS files are “parsed” in the browser.**  
Firstly, the browser will parse the HTML file - it will then acknowledge anly linked CSS or JS files. It will send a request to the server to get the CSS and JS files it has found from the < link > and < script > elements. The browser then creates an in-memory DOM tree from the HTML that has been parsed, an in-memory CSSOM from the CSS that has been parsed and compiles/executes the JavaScript that has been parsed.  

**How can you find images to add to a Website?**  
You can search for images on Google images. It is important to remember that many images are copyrighted. Google has a license filter you can use that will help you to reduce the chance of copyright infringement.  
Click Tools followed by Usage rights and choose the option "Creative Commons licenses".
 

**How do you create a String vs a Number in JavaScript?**  
A string is written in single '' or double "" speechmarks and a number is written simply as a number without quotes.

**What is a Variable and why are they important in JavaScript?**  
A variable is a container that stores data/values. They are important because without them, you wuoldn't be able to do anything dynamic because there would be no values to change.

## Introduction to HTML

**What is an HTML attribute?**  
A HTML attribute is the extra information that is added to an element. It cannot be seen in the content. class and id are both attributes. 

**Describe the Anatomy of an HTMl element.**  
A HTML element consists of an opening tag, a closing tag and the content.  
E.g. < opening tag > Content < / closing tag>

**What is the Difference between <article> and <section> element tags?**  
An article is a block that is used to specify independent content that can be read and makes sense on it's own or away from the website.  A blog entry or a news article are both examples of articles.  
A section, however, is a section that is a block used within a page or document and usually used to group parts of the page or document. It would not make sense on it's own or out of context with the rest of the page.

**What Elements does a “typical” website include?**  
A "typical" website would usually contain the following elements:
- header
- navigation bar
- main content
- sidebar
- footer

**How does metadata influence Search Engine Optimization?**  
Search engines use data from meta tags. You can put important or relevent keywords in your meta data, such as when using the meta tag to add a description. Search Engines will use this data and will include your page when the keywords have been searched for.

**How is the <meta> HTML tag used when specifying metadata?**  
The meta tag is used in the head of the page. It can be used in many ways, such as for adding a description, adding an author, choosing the document's character encoding and much more.


## Miscellaneous

### How to start to design a Website.

**What is the first step to designing a Website?**  
The first step to designing a website is to decide what you are trying to achieve with your website.

**What is the most important question to answer when designing a Website?**  
The most important question when designing a website is "What do I want to accomplish?"


### Semantics.

**Why should you use an < h1 > element over a <span> element to display a top level heading?**  
h1 is a semantic element, thus it holds meaning that the browser recognises. By using a h1 element over a span element, you are telling the browser that this is the most important heading on the page. The browser isn't getting any extra information from the span element.

**What are the benefits of using semantic tags in our HTML?**  
The benefits of using semantic tags are:
- SEO acknowledges that it's contents is important and will use it and it's keywords in search results.
- It is easily read and navigated by screenreaders, meaning the page can be accessed by users who are visually impaired.
- It is easier to find meaningful code.
- It indicates the type of data to be included.
- It is good practise/ proper custom when naming elements and components.


### What is JavaScript?

**Describe 2 things that require JavaScript in the Browser?**  
1. Responding to events, such as making something happen when you click a button.
2. Store values in variables.

**How can you add JavaScript to an HTML document?**  
You can add JavaScript to a HTML document in the following ways:
1. Internal Javascript: By using the script element within the HTML document and adding your javascript within it. 
2. External Javascript: By linking an external javascript file to your HTML page. (It is best practise to do this and link your js file at the bottom of the page before the closing body tag.)
3. Inline Javascript: JavaScript can live within the HTML code itself but this is not advised.

---

Useful links:
- [Getting Started](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web)
- [How the Web Works](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/How_the_Web_works)
- [Website Design and Process](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/What_will_your_website_look_like)
- [Javascript Basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/JavaScript_basics)
- [Introduction to HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML)
- [Getting Started with HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started)
- [HTML Document Structure](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Document_and_website_structure)
- [Metadata in HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/The_head_metadata_in_HTML)
- [How to Start to Design a Webpage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Design_and_accessibility/Thinking_before_coding)
- [Semantics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Semantics)
- [What is Javascript?](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/What_is_JavaScript)
- [Dev Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/)
- [HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/)

---

## Things I want to know more about
- [What is Git rebase](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/git-rebase#:~:text=What%20is%20git%20rebase%3F,of%20a%20feature%20branching%20workflow)
- [Merging vs Rebasing](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing#workflow-walkthrough)

---

## Things to remember

- 1rem = 16px  
- em = relative to parent e.g. if parent is 3rem, 0.01em would be 0.01 of 3rem.
