## HTML

**Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?**  
Semantic elements hold meaning. It tells the browser what to expect and the element's importance. Semantic elements are used by Screenreaders as a guide/map and means the person using the screenreader can jump to  their desired section easily. SEO also uses semantic elements to know what to include for search results. It makes it easier to find code that is meaningful.

**How many levels of headings are there in HTML?**  
There are 6 levels of header, with h1 being the most important, h2 being a sub-heading and h3 being a sub-heading of that etc,

**What are some uses for the < sup> and < sub> elements?**  
You could use the sup element for writing the date e.g. 25<sup>th</sup> or in Math's when squaring a number e.g. 5<sup>2</sup>.  
You culd use the sup element when writing chemical symbols e.g. H<sub>2</sub>O.

**When using the < abbr> element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?**  
To use the full expansion of the abbreviated term, you must use the 'title' attribute. E.g. <abbr title ="Doctor"> Dr<abbr> Who.

## CSS

**What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?**  
We can apply CSS in 3 ways:
1. Externally: By linking a CSS file in the head of the page.
2. Internally: By including the CSS within the style element in the head of the page.
3. Inline: By using the style tags within the body of the HTML. (Use sparingly!)

**Why should we avoid using inline styles?**  
It is harder to maintain and means you will have to make multiple changes throughout the pages - this can be hard to manage and very time consuming. It is also harder to read.

**Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:**  


**What is representing the selector?**  
h2

**Which components are the CSS declarations?**  
color: black;  
padding: 5px;

**Which components are considered properties?**  
color  
padding
   
>   *h2 {  
     color: black;  
     padding: 5px;  
   }*


   ## Javascript

**What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?**  
A string.

**List 4 types of JavaScript operators.**  
- Assignment (=) Assigns a value to a variable.
- Addition (+) Add numbers together or combine strings (cancatenation).
- (*) multiplication 
- (-) subtraction   
Bonus: 
- (/) divide.

**Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.**  
You could use a function to solve math problems.

**An if statement checks a __ and if it evaluates to ___, then the code block will execute.**  
An if statement checks an **_expression_** and if it evaluates to **_true_**, then the code block will execute.

**What is the use of an else if?**  
The else if is used to run code when the if statement evaluates to false.

**List 3 different types of comparison operators.**  
- Strict equality (===) performs a test to see if the value and type are the same/equal.
- Not/Does-not-equal (!)  Returns the opposite value/ turns a true into a false.  
(!--) Tests whetehr values are not equal  
Extra:  
- < or > - Tests to see if a value is less than or greater than another value.  
Bonus:
- <= or >= - Tests to see if a value is less than or equal to another, or greater than or equal to another.

**What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?**  
&& meaning AND - this lets you select multiple expressions that each have to evaluate to true for the code to run/the whole expression to run as true.  
|| meaning OR - this lets you select multiple expressions that one or more of which need to evaluate as true for the code to run/the whole expression to run as true.

---

Useful Links:
- [Introduction to HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML)
- [HTML Text Fundamentals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/HTML_text_fundamentals)
- [HTML Advanced Text Formatting](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Advanced_text_formatting)
- [How is CSS Structured?](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/First_steps/How_CSS_is_structured)
- [JavaScript Basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/JavaScript_basics)
- [Making Decisions in your Code - Conditionals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals)
- [How to write a Git Commit](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)

---

## Things I want to know more about

- Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.