
## Ordered and Unordered lists.

**When should you use an unordered list in your HTML document?**  
When the order of the list isn't important, such as when listing ingredients.

**How do you change the bullet style of unordered list items?**  
You can change the bullet style in the CSS by targeting the ul items and using the list-style or list-style-type property.  


**When should you use an ordered list vs an unordered list in your HTML document?**  
You should use an ordered list when the order of the list is important, such as for following instructions or directions. You should use an unordered list when the order of the items do not matter.

**Describe two ways you can change the numbers on list items provided by an ordered list?**  
By giving the ol an attribute of 'type' in the html e.g. < ol type ="i">  
a = lowercase letters  
A = uppercase letters  
i = lowercase Roman numerials  
I = uppercase Roman numerials
1 = numbers

## The Box Model.

**Describe the CSS properties of margin and padding as characters in a story.**  
Mr Padding is very shy - he is always hanging around (wrapping) his friend Lil' Content, and will not step out of their comfort zone of Border Bay.  
Ms Margin is very protective and can always be found around (wrapping) Mr Padding, Lil' Content and Border Bay and decides how much space needs to be kept between her and the other city's and it's occupants (aka other elements).

**_What is their role in a story titled: “The Box Model”?_**
I am still writing this short novel.

**List and describe the four parts of an HTML elements box as referred to by the box model.**  
- contents: This is where the content is displayed.
- padding: This is the area/white space around the content.
- border: This goes around/wraps the conent and padding.
- margin: This is the area/white space that wraps the content, padding and border. 


## Arrays. Operators and Expressions. Conditionals. Loops.

**What data types can you store inside of an Array?**  
- strings
- numbers
- boolean
- objects
- other arrays

**Is the people array a valid JavaScript array? If so, how can I access the values stored? If not, why?**  

 >const people = [['pete', 32, 'librarian', null], ['Smith', 40, 'accountant', 'fishing:hiking:rock_climbing'], ['bill', null, 'artist', null]];

Yes, you can access them by using an index e.g. console.log(people[1])

**List five shorthand operators for assignment in javascript and describe what they do.**  
- Addition assignment: x += f() meaning x = x + f()
- Subtraction assignment: x -= f() meaning x = x - f()
- Multiplication assignment: x *= f() meaning x = x * f() 
- Division assignment: x /= f() meaning x = x / f()
- Remainder assignment: x %= f() meaning x = x % f()

**Read the code below and evaluate the last expression and explain what the result would be and why.**  

 >let a = 10;  
 let b = 'dog';  
 let c = false;     


**// evaluate this**
 >(a + c) + b;


 
**Describe a real world example of when a conditional statement should be used in a JavaScript program.**  
A conditional statement could be used if you want to give certain advice depending on the wweather e.g. if it is sunny, wear sunscreen.


**Give an example of when a Loop is useful in JavaScript.**  
A loop is useful when you want to repeat something multiple times; such as if you want to give somebody three tries in a game of guess the number.

---

Useful Links:
- [Learn HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
- [Ordered List](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ol)
- [Unordered List](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ul)
- [Learn CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS)
- [The Box Model](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)
- [Learn JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript)
- [Arrays](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays)
- [Operators and Expressions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Expressions_and_Operators)
- [Conditionals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals) 
- [Loops](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
- More time practising and understanding Arrays. Operators and Expressions. Conditionals. Loops.