## HTML

**To create a basic link, we wrap text or other content inside what element?**  
the < a> element (using the href attribute).

**The href attribute contains what information?**  
href stands for Hypertext Reference and contains the web address.

**What are some ways we can ensure links on our pages are accessible to all readers?** 
- By using keywords
- By making the link text clear and concise e.g. 'Cat pictures' for a link for Cat pictures.
- Do not include the word link e.g. 'Cat Pictures Link'
- By making each text link different
- Don't include the URL address in the text of the link
- Use signposts to know what is expected e.g. when downloading a PDF or opening in a new page. 

## CSS

**What is meant by “normal flow”?**  
Normal flow is the default way the browser displays html elements (when the CSS has not been changed).

**What are a few differences between block-level and inline elements?**  
Block-level elements take up the width of the page. Other elements will not be positioned next to them, they will go below a block-level element.  
Inline elements only take up the space they contain, rather than the whole width. Inline elements can go beside eachother on a page.

**___ positioning is the default for every html element.**  
*Static* positioning is the default for every html element.

**Name a few advantages to using absolute positioning on an element.**  
When positioned absolute, an element is no longer exists in the normal flow of the document. This is beneficial because you can create isolate UI feautures, such as pop ups, that doesn't interfere with the other elements on the page. Other UI feautures you could make include control panels, rollover menus and elements you can move around the page.
Absolute positioning is realtive to it's containing element , rather than the normal flow.

**What is a key difference between fixed positioning and absolute positioning?**  
A fixed position will usually fixes an element in place, realtive to the viewport (It can be used to fix items to specific locations e.g. a footer at the bottom of the page.) where as the absolute position fixes an element in place relative to it's containing element. While absolute positioning exists outside of the normal flow of the document, the fixed position doesn't and therefore can block other elements.


## JS

**Describe the difference between a function declaration and a function invocation.**
A function declaration is when you create a function (code that is written to perform a specific task). This code doesn't execute until it has been invoked.  
A function invocation is when you invoke or call the function; meaning to actually use/execute the function that has been declared.

**What is the difference between a parameter and an argument?**  
Parameters are stored within the parenthesis of the function declaration, where as arguments are stored in the parenthesis of the function invocation.


## Misc

**Pick 2 benefits to pair programming and reflect on how these benefits could help you on your coding journey.**  

1. You get to learn from another coder. If you get stuck on a piece of code they can help you find a solution.
2. You get to embed what you alerady know by explaining it to somebody else.
---

Useful Links:
- [Creating Hyperlinks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Creating_hyperlinks)
- [CSS Layout: Normal Flow](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Normal_Flow)
- [CSS Layout: Positioning](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Positioning)
- [Functions: Reusable Blocks of Code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions)
- [Six Reasons for Pair Programming](https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/)

---

## Things I Want to Learn: