## HTML

**What is a real world use case for the alt attribute being used in a website?**  
The real world use for the alt attribute is that should an image link be broken or not working, the alt text will be displayed to tell you what the image should have been. It should be used when the image is important to the content. It is also good for screenreaders as it can describe what an image should be or like like to those with visual impairments.

**How can you improve accessibility of images in an HTML document?**  
Including the alt with useful and concise text about the image will be useful for those with screenreaders. Having important information in the main text where possible is preferred, but if an image's contents is important then it should be written in the alt text.  
If you add a link to an image, you should also provide accessible link text such as in the a element or in the img alt attribute.  
Using the figure element with teh figcaption nested inside to add a caption will also help with accessibility.



**Provide an example of when the figure element would be useful in an HTML document.**  
The figure element is useful for when you want to add a caption to an image. Togther with the figcaption element, it links the caption to an image so screen readers know which caption is related to which image. An example of code would be:
> < figure>  
< img src="" alt="">  
< figcaption>  
Your Caption here  
< /figcaption>
< /figure>

**Describe the difference between a gif image and an svg image, pretend you are explaining to an elder in your community.**  
A GIF (which stands for Graphics Interchnage Format) is an image file type that supports animation. They are generally sued to display a short animation or video as a series of images. SVG, however, is a text file which contains drawing instructions to create an image (through lines and shapes etc). SVG's are great for images such as diagrams and logos, as well as images that needs to be drawn in accurately at different sizes.

**What image type would you use to display a screenshot on your website and why?**  
PNG would be the best choice because it uses lossless compression - this is especially useful if the screenshot has text as it will reduce the risk of the text becoming fuzzy or unclear. Another option is lossless WebP (with PNG as a fallback).

## CSS

**Describe the difference between foreground and background colors of an HTML element, pretend you are talking to someone with no technical knowledge.**  
The foreground colour is the colour of the actual content of the element. For example, in a paragraph or header, this would be the text. The background colour is the colour of the padding (this is the space around the content of an element). The background colour, as it sounds, sets the colour of the background.

**Your friend asks you to give his colorless blog website a touch up. How would you use color to give his blog some character?**  


**What should you consider when choosing fonts for an HTML document?**  


**What do font-size, font-weight, and font-style do to HTML text elements?**  
- font-size changes the size of the font/text.
- font-weight changes the boldness of the font/text.
- font-style can be used to make font italic.

**Describe two ways you could add spacing around the characters displayed in an h1 element.**  


---

Useful Links:
- [HTML Media](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding)
[Using Images in HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Images_in_HTML)
[Common Image Types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types)
[Choosing Image Formats](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types#choosing_an_image_format)
[Using Color in CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Colors/Applying_color)
[Styling HTML Text Elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Styling_text/Fundamentals)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
- :first-child selector
- :only-child selector
- :last-child selector