## JS Objects

**How would you describe an object to a non-technical friend you grew up with?**  
>"An object is a collection of related data and/or functionality." 
[JavaScript Object Basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/Basics)

Objects can hold variables, functions and data structures. Variables within objects are known as properties and functions within objects are known as methods.

**What are some advantages to creating object literals?**  
An object literal is useful when you want to send a lot of related data. It is easier and more effecient than sending the data individually. It also means your code is tidier and better organised.

**How do objects differ from arrays?**  
An object and an aray can both be used to hold data and functions.   
An object holds properties/key value pairs and functions/methods.  
An array is used to store lists that are indexed by numbers where as an object uses named indexes. Having said that, an array is a type of object.

**Give an example for when you would need to use bracket notation to access an object’s property instead of dot notation.**  
When the name of a property is held in a variable you would need to use bracket notaion to access it as you cannot use dot notation in this instance.

**Evaluate the code below. What does the term this refer to and what is the advantage to using this?**  

>const dog = {
  name: 'Spot',
  age: 2,
  color: 'white with black spots',
  humanAge: function (){
    console.log(`${this.name} is ${this.age*7} in human years`);
  }
}

In this object, the term 'this' is referring to dog - another way to write it would be dog.name or dog.name; 'this' is a reference to the object it is in. It is useful because you do not have to keep writing the object name/value.
By using 'this' instead, you will be able to create more than one object from a single object definition using a Constructor.

## The DOM

**What is the DOM?**  
The DOM stands for Document Object Model and is an API (Application Programming Interface) for documents. It represents a page using objects and nodes (often depicted in a tree-like structure) so that programming languages can access and change/manipulate the page structure, content and style.

**Briefly describe the relationship between the DOM and JavaScript.**  
The DOM is very important for JavaScript as it uses it to access and manipulate the structure, style, content and behaviour of elements in a page. For example, you can use JavaScript and the Dom to add elements and their content. It can use the DOM to add interactivity to a page. 


---

Useful Links:
- [JavaScript Object Basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/Basics)
-[Introduction To The DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)
- [Solving Programming Problems](https://simpleprogrammer.com/solving-problems-breaking-it-down/)
- [Primitive Values vs Object References](https://betterprogramming.pub/intermediate-javascript-whats-the-difference-between-primitive-values-and-object-references-e863d70677b)
- [Objects](https://javascript.info/object)

---

## Things I Want to Learn: