## Domain Modeling

**Explain why we need domain modeling.**  
Domain modelling is used to create a conceptual representation for a specific problem. We need it, because when it is done well, it can help you to demonstrate your understanding of the problem. It can help developers and the stakeholder to have an understanding of the problem.

## HTML Table Basics

**Why should tables not be used for page layouts?**  
You should not use tables for page layouts because it does not make a page accessible for screenreaders and for visually impaired users.


**List and describe 3 different semantic HTML elements used in an HTML < table>.**  
- < td>: This stands for table data. Any data (such as text) that you want to be put in your table, must be wrapped in the td tag.
- < th>: This stands for table header and should be used to wrap around the headers in your table. Not only does this make your table look better, and clearer to read, it also is useful for screenreaders as they will associate the header to the data in the same row/column and can read the connecting cells.
- < tr>: This stands for table row. It is used to create rows. Each td/cell in the same row needs to be included in the tr tag. Use tr everytime you want to create a new row. E.g.
>< tr>  
< td>Row One, Cell One< /td>  
< td>Row One, Cell Two< /td>  
< /tr>  
< tr>  
< td>Row Two, Cell One< /td>  
< td>Row Two, Cell Two< /td>    
< /tr>  

## Introducing Constructors

**What is a constructor and what are some advantages to using it?**  
A construction is a special kind of function. It is used by calling the 'new' keyword. They are used to create new objects and saves you from having to write multiple object literals for the same object e.g. cat1, cat2 etc. Using an constructor means you don't have to remember to update every single object or object literal when you want to make changes.

**How does the term this differ when used in an object literal versus when used in a constructor?**  
When in an object literal, the term 'this' represents that particular object. When used in a constructor, it binds 'this' to the new object that the constructor creates. 


## Object Prototypes Using A Constructor

**Explain prototypes and inheritance via an analogy from your previous work experience.**  
**_NOTE: This is a very common front end developer interview question_**  

I plan to look at this in more detail.

---

Useful Links:
- [Domain Modeling](https://github.com/codefellows/domain_modeling#domain-modeling)
- [HTML Table Basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Tables/Basics)
- [Introducing Constructors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/Basics#introducing_constructors)
- [Object Prototypes Using A Constructor](https://ui.dev/beginners-guide-to-javascript-prototype)
- [HTML Table Advanced Features and Accessibility](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Tables/Advanced)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
- [Prototype Inheritance](https://medium.com/@kevincennis/prototypal-inheritance-781bccc97edb) 