## HTML Forms

**Why are forms so important in web development?**  
Forms are important because they provide interaction between users and a website/app. It means users can provide data which is sent to a server and can be even be used to update and manipulate the page. 

**When designing a form, what are some key things to keep in mind when it comes to user experience?**  
You should keep in mind the size of the form - people will get fed up and potentially give up on long forms. It's important to keep the form as short as possible and only include what is necessary. It is als important to consider accessibility (as you should with any part of your website/app) as you build your form, and include elements such as label and legend.

**List 5 form elements and explain their importance.**  
- form: This is a very important element as you must first use it to declare/create a form. It has attributes which can control a form's behaviour and screenreaders use it to know there is going to be a form.
- label: Each input has a corresponding label element which associates the label with the form control - this is useful for accessibility.
- input: The input alement, alongside with the type attribute, is very important because it tells what kind of input is expect and the type attribute will tell the input how to behave. For example, the input email type will know to look for the format of an email addess, such as using the @ sign.
- textarea: This is used when a multiline text field is required.
- button: A button not only helps make a form look attractive; they can be used to submit data or targeted to make custom buttons with JS.

## Learn JS

**How would you describe events to a non-technical friend?**  
Events are used to make something happen on a website or app. When an event happens, it triggers your code to run and make the website or app behave in a certain way or do a certain thing. An event could be caused by a user, such as when they click a button or by the page itself such as when the page loads.

**When using the addEventListener() method, what 2 arguments will you need to provide?**  
The first argument you need to provide is what type of event to listen out for; such as click, mouseover or mouse off.  
The second argument is an anonymous function.

**Describe the event object. Why is the target within the event object useful?**  
An event object give events extra feautures and information. The target references the element that triggered the event and is useful because you are able to directly work with the specific element. For example, when there is an event listener on the button and a function to change the background colour when it is clicked; by using and event object you can target the button itself and the button background colour will change.

**What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?**  
Event bubbling is when an event starts from the inner-most element of nested elements and bubbles upwards to the parent containers.  
Capturing is the opposite; it starts with the outer-most nested element, or parent element, and works it's way down through the children elements. This is disabled by default.


---

Useful Links:
- [HTML Forms](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms)
- [Your first Web Form.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/Your_first_form)
- [How To Structure A Web Form.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/How_to_structure_a_web_form)
- [Learn JS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript)
- [Introduction To Events.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Events)
- [HTML5 Input Types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/HTML5_input_types)
- [Event Reference and listings](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events)
- [ARIA/ Accessibility](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA)


---

## Things I Want to Learn:
- preventDefault () 
