## What Went Wrong? Troubleshooting JavaScript.

**Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error.**  
A Syntax Error is when you have made a spelling mistake or missing a piece of syntax; such as a curly bracket. It can be easier to solve as the console log will throw up an error and guide you to where and what the error is.  
A Logic Error is different, because it is not down to a error with the syntax but is when the code isn't doing what you expect it to. In this case, the code runs but gives the wrong results. This can be a lot harder to fix as the console log will not throw up Logic Errors.

**List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them.**  
- Mispelling words. Fix: correcting the spelling.
- Missing syntax symbols. Fix: Followed the console log error to know what needs fixing and where and doing so.
- Stuck in an infinite loop. Fix: I had used 0 < as a coniditional and needed to fix chnage this to i.
- Code not running because I forgot to declare something (especially i in a for loop).
- CSS did not seem to be targeting a container div. Fix: VSC had automatically closed the div, therefore my content was under the container. I had to delete this closing div tag.
- Many more!!

**How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals?**  
- This topic is crucial to my long term goals because errors are a natural part of coding and devlopment. They are also goung to come up so it is important to know how to find and fix errors. When working in development, employers will be looking for people who are able to do this.


## The JavaScript Debugger.

**How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?**  
The Javascript Debugger tool is a tool that is built into browsers to help you troubleshoot and find bugs in your code. You can use it to find and fix errors. To find it in Chrome, you need to right click, inspect (or Ctrl + Shift + C) and click the source tab.

**Define what a breakpoint is.**  
A breakpoint is used when you want to pause the execution of your code. You click the break point on the relevent line of code; the debugger will pause at this point and you will be able to inspect how the program is running up until that point. 

**What is the call stack?**  
The callstack lists what functions and code have been executed up until the current breakpoint/ line of code. It can help you understand what functions are running on your page.

---

Useful Links:
- [What Went Wrong? Troubleshooting JavaScript.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/What_went_wrong)
- [The JavaScript Debugger.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Tools_and_setup/What_are_browser_developer_tools#the_javascript_debugger)
- [Debugging HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Debugging_HTML)
- [Debugging CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Debugging_CSS)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:

## Notes

When looking for a Syntax Error, check in this order:
1. The line the console log is saying the error is on.
2. The line before the line the console log is saying the error is on.
3. Check elsewhere in the code - is it to do with a variable not being declared or declared incorrectly/mispelt? 