## Video and Audio Content

**Explain how the ability to use video and audio on the web has evolved since the early 2000s.**  
Previously, video and audio files relied on plug-ins, such as Flash, to be able to work. However these would tend to have security and accessibility problems. Nowadays, it is not necessary to use a plug-in - you can use native HTML with the video and audio element which is much better.

**Describe the use of the src and controls attributes in the < video> element.**  
The controls attribute gives the video their controls - such as the play and pause button. It is very important to include the controls attribute so people can stop the video when they need to (this is especially important for people with sensory issues or epilepsy).  
The src attribute is used as a path to the video comment, much like it is for the image element. You can also use the source element within the video element to add multiple types of video in case a browser doesn't support the first source.

**Why is it important to have fallback content inside the < video> element?**  
It is important to have fallback content within the video element as this is what will be displayed if the browser does not support the video. This is especially important for older browsers. You can put what you what in the fallback content, though you may consider providing a direct link to the video file so it can still be accessed.

**Write a very short story where < audio> and < video> are characters.**  
Once upon a time, there was a Lion called Video (who killed an antelope called Radio Star, but that's a different story). Video liked to act, dance and sing and was always putting on shows. Video's friend, Audio (who strangely was a Hornbill), preferred to only sing. They made videos and songs for the animal kingdom to listen to. They wanted to ensure everybody was included so they thought carefully about the type of file they saved their content as and gave everybody the source. They were mindful not everybody would want to listen, so they made sure to always included controls so their animal friends could stop listening if they wanted to. They even recorded a fallback message for if their music and movies were incompatible. Though they could have used an autoplay or loop of their art, they didn't want to annoy their friends so they did not use these. Video the Lion cared about inclusivity so he also made video text tracks such as subtitles, captions and time descriptions so all his friends could enjoy. Video and Audio were so well loved that they can now be found on websites and apps all over the world! The End. 

## A Complete Guide To Grid

**How does Grid layout differ from Flex?**  
Flexbox is one dimensional, meaning you can only work with one row or column at a time. However, grid is two-dimensional which means you can define both rows and columns. Grid gives you more controlw over where you place elements as you can place them in/along both rows and columns.

**Grid container, grid item, and grid line are a few important terms to understand when using Grid. Please describe these terms in a few sentences.**  
Grid container: This is the parent container in which you would use the display: grid; property and value.  
Grid item: Grid items are the direct children of the grid container. Only the direct descendants are grid items - their children (or the grid containers grand-children) are not grid items.  
Grid line: The grid lines are the lines which divide the grid, which in turn makes up the structure of the grid. They can be vertical lines or horizontal lines and are found on eitehr side of rows and columns.  

## Responsive Images

**Besides making a site visually appealing across different screen sizes, why should developers make images responsive?**  
There are so many different devices these days, that it is very important to ensure images are responsive and can cater to this. Different devices will have different needs, and you could be using up wasting bandwidth if you use a large image size for a small device (Many mobile phones have limits to their data so they don't wnat this to be wasted on large image files when it doesn't have to be). Some devices also have high resolution screens, so may need larger files to cater to this.

**Define the following < img> attributes srcset and sizes. Write an example of how they are used.**  
srcset: The srcset attribute allows the browser to choose between a set of images. It contains the src to the image and what size it is. You would include the filename then a space followed by the images intrinsic width in pixels (using the w unit, rather than pixels). You would sepearte each image option with a comma. See the example below:
> < img srcset="filename.jpg 480w, filename2.jpg 800w> 

sizes: The sizes attribute is used to provide a set of media conditions which suggests to the browser which image would be best to use for certain media conditions (e.g. screen sizes).  First you would include the media condition e.g. (max-width: 600px) - this meaning if the viewport is 600px or less. Next you would leave a space, followed by the width of the space or slot that image will need to fill when the mdeia condition is met (480px). See an example of code below:
> sizes="(max-width:600px) 480px, 800px"  



>"So, with these attributes in place, the browser will:  
>
>1. Look at its device width.  
>2. Work out which media condition in the sizes list is the first one to be true.  
>3. Look at the slot size given to that media query.  
Load the image referenced in the srcset list that has the same size as the slot or, if there isn't one, the first image that is bigger than the chosen slot size." -- 
[Responsive Images](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images)


**How is srcset more helpful for responsive images than CSS or JavaScript?**  
Srcset is more helpful, because when using CSS or Javascript for responsive images; the browser will read the html first and load the image at it's fullsize/resolution and then take into account the CSS/Javascript and loading the image at the size specified - this means the browser is loading multiple images. With srcset, the browser chooses the appropriate image and only loads this - this is saving bandwidth which is especially useful for mobile users.


---

Useful Links:
- [Video and Audio Content](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Video_and_audio_content)
- [A Complete Guide To Grid](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/complete-guide-grid/)
- [Responsive Images](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images)
- [Other Embedding Technologies](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Other_embedding_technologies)
- [Create Custom Audio Player](https://css-tricks.com/lets-create-a-custom-audio-player/)

---

## Things I Want to Learn:
- How does Grid affect accessibility?