# Read: 02 - The Coder's Computer

**What are four important features to look for in a text editor?**  
 There are lots of options when it comes to useing text editors for coding. You can use basic text editors that come with your device, such as notepad or you could download a text editor with more features.  
 Some important feautures to look for in a text editor are:
 1. Code completion - this is where the program is able to display options to complete your code as you begin typing. This can save lots of time as you will be writing so much code! It also helps to prevent typos.
 2. Syntax highlighting - this highlights or colours different parts of the code for easier reading. For example, attributes will be one colour and elements another. This can help you spot errors.
 3. Different themes - Having different themes, such as dark mode, can help with reading and mean there will be less strain on your eyes. With different themes, you can find a theme that works best for you.
 4. Extensions - having a good choice of extensions mean you can do so much more with your code. There are so many options to make coding easier, so having a good selection is super useful! 

**What do the following commands do?**

pwd - pwd stands for "print working directory". This shows you your currennt location in the terminal.

ls - ls essentially lists all the files and directories within the current location you are in.

cd - this stands for "change directory". Writing 'cd', followed by the directory name that you want to change to, will send you to that directory location.  
Eg: 'cd reading-notes' will take you to the reading-notes directory.

mkdir - this stands for "make directory". Writing 'mkdir', followed by the name of the directory you want to make, will make a new directory.  
Eg: 'mkdir project-1' will make a directory called 'project-1'.

touch - this creates a new file in your current location. Write 'touch' followed by the name of your file to do this. Remember to include the file type, such as .html for a html file.
Eg: 'touch index.html' will make a html file called 'index.html'.

**Can you explain what is happening in the following scenario if these commands and arguments are entered into the command line? (Arguments are extra instructions given to a command.)**

cd projects - this will take you to the directory called 'projects'

mkdir new-project - this will make a new directory called 'new-project'

touch new-project/newfile.md - this will make a new md file in the 'new-project' directory, called 'newfile.md'

cd .. - this will change your directory back to the previous directory.

ls projects/new-project - this will list all the files within the projects/new-project' directory.

---

Useful links:

- [Choosing a Text Editor](https://codefellows.github.io/code-102-guide/curriculum/class-02/Choosing-A-Text-Editor--The-Older-Coder.pdf)  

Linux tutorials:
- [The Command Line](https://ryanstutorials.net/linuxtutorial/commandline.php)
- [Basic Navigation](https://ryanstutorials.net/linuxtutorial/navigation.php)
- [About Files](https://ryanstutorials.net/linuxtutorial/aboutfiles.php)


